React is a js library whose sole purpose is to create UIs.

Library = pre-defined functionalities

library:- one segment of code where bhot sari functionalities are present and which can be invoked and used.

magical line=react is all about components

components:-reusable piece of code -- it is a function in the end

Why need react? when js se sara kaam ho javanga?
    bcz normal js is based on imperative approach and react is based on declarative approach.

    Imperative Approach:
        In imperative programming, you explicitly specify how to achieve a task. You provide step-by-step instructions, detailing each action to take.
        Think of it like giving directions to someone: “First, turn left. Then, walk 100 meters. Next, cross the street.”
        In the context of web development with Plain JavaScript, you might manipulate the DOM directly, specifying how to create, update, or delete elements. For example:

        // Imperative approach: Creating an element and appending it to the DOM
            const button = document.createElement('button');
            button.textContent = 'Click me';
            document.getElementById('root').appendChild(button);

    Declarative Approach:
        In declarative programming, you focus on what you want to achieve rather than the specific steps to get there.
        You describe the desired outcome, and the system (like a library or framework) handles the implementation details.
        React embodies a declarative approach. When you define a React component, you specify its structure and behavior without worrying about the low-level DOM manipulation:
    
        // Declarative approach: Defining a React component
            function MyButton() {
                return <button>Click me</button>;
            }

        In this example, you declare that you want a button, and React takes care of creating and updating the DOM.


Generally we follow SPA approach(Single page approach).
one html file is loaded and other parts of the page are dynamically loaded.
it feels like there are multiple pages but in actual the above statement is happening under the hood.

